these cicadas in the eastern United
States spend 17 whole years below ground
sucking sap from tree roots and then
within a few days a whole population
emerges
[Music]
there may be millions of them in a
single acre of land
they Tambe up the trees whose roots have
provided them with SAP for all of those
17 years
[Music]
and here they changed into their about
gospel
[Music]
now they have the wings they need to
search for a partner empty larval cases
cover the tree trunks and the ground
and above in the branches the millions
have started to sing the lawyers is
ear-splitting
after 17 years of living underground the
cicadas are now approaching the climax
of their lives and for the male that
means this
the call is his way of attaching a
female
the females reply with a quite different
song a thick made by flicking her wings
so that's what the males are listening
out for I can imitate the females wing
clip with a snap of my fingers anywhere
because they're so determined divide a
female
then you back
lawyer's office before yes I can hear
you
[Music]
I've lost a male find his partner and as
he does so his co-authors he's
indicating to her but after 17 years the
time has come to get down
how do these cicadas all emerge
simultaneously after 17 longer
well we know that they can appreciate
changes in the content of tree fat so
they're able to detect the passing of a
year but how do they count up to seventy
but even if we did this short would
remain one of the most astonishing
amazing event in the insect world
[Music]